detailed walkthrough of transaction construction (#501)
near/docs: docs/tutorials/create-transactions.md

---
id: create-transactions
title: Create Transactions
sidebar_label: Create Transactions
---
To construct & process transactions you will need our API JavaScript library: [`near-api-js`](https://docs.near.org/docs/roles/developer/examples/near-api-js/introduction).

  - All transactions require the following:
      - `signerId` _(account ID of the transaction originator)_
      - `signerPublicKey`
      - `receiverId` _(account ID of the transaction recipient)_
      - `nonceForPublicKey` _(each time a key is used the nonce value should be incremented by 1)_
      - `actions` _( [[ click here ]](/docs/concepts/transaction#action) for supported arguments)_

>       - `blockHash` _(a current block hash (within 12hrs) to prove the transaction was recently created)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `blockHash` _(a current block hash (within 24hrs) to prove the transaction was recently created)_
```

  See [Transaction Class](https://near.github.io/near-api-js/classes/_transaction_.transaction.html) for a more in depth outline.
___

# Create a "token transfer" transaction

## Setup
1) Clone the [transaction-examples](https://github.com/near-examples/transaction-examples) repository by running:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/near-examples/transaction-examples.git
```

2) Follow [setup instructions](https://github.com/near-examples/transaction-examples/blob/master/readme.MD#prerequisites)
___

## Imports
In the first two lines of code in [`send-tokens.js`](https://github.com/near-examples/transaction-examples/blob/master/send-tokens.js#L1-L2), we:
  1) Importing the NEAR API JavaScript library
  2) Importing helper functions found in [`utils.js`](https://github.com/near-examples/transaction-examples/blob/master/utils.js)

```js
const nearAPI = require('near-api-js');
const { setupNear, formatAmount } = require('./utils');
```
___

> ## Setting up connection to NEAR

Reviewer: I would also add a section on using a keypair directly to construct a transaction (vs. going to keystore to find keys)

Author: fixed 👍

- To ensure a unique number is created for each transaction, the current `nonce` should be queried and then incremented by 1.
- Current nonce can be queried using the `near` object we created with [`setupNear()`](/docs/tutorials/create-transactions#setting-up-connection-to-near).

```js
const accessKey = await near.connection.provider.query(
  `access_key/${sender}/${publicKey.toString()}`, ''
  );
```
- now we can create a unique number for our transaction by incrementing the current `nonce`.

```js
const nonce = ++accessKey.nonce;
 ```

### 5 `actions`
- There are currently eight supported `Action` types. [[ see here ]](/docs/concepts/transaction#action)
- For this example, we are using `Transfer`
- This transfer action can be created using the [imported `nearAPI` object](/docs/tutorials/create-transactions#imports) and the [formatted Ⓝ amount](/docs/tutorials/create-transactions#formatting-token-amounts) created earlier.

```js
const actions = [nearAPI.transactions.transfer(amount)];
```
 [[ click here ]](https://github.com/near/near-api-js/blob/master/src/transaction.ts#L70-L72) to view source for `transfer()`.

### 6 `blockHash`

> - Each transaction requires a current block hash (within 12hrs) to prove that the transaction was created recently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each transaction requires a current block hash (within 24hrs) to prove that the transaction was created recently.
```

  1) [NEAR API JavaScript library](https://github.com/near/near-api-js)
  2) [`js-sha256`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-sha256) (cryptographic hashing algorithm)
  3) Helper functions found in [`utils.js`](https://github.com/near-examples/transaction-examples/blob/master/utils.js) & [`config.js`](https://github.com/near-examples/transaction-examples/blob/master/config.js)

```js
const nearAPI = require('near-api-js');
const sha256 = require('js-sha256');
const getConfig = require('./config');
const { formatAmount } = require('./utils');
```
___

## Setting up a connection to NEAR
In this example, we will construct a `provider` that allows us to connect to NEAR via [RPC endpoints](/docs/api/rpc).
- Our `getConfig()` helper function returns endpoint configuration from  [`config.js`](https://github.com/near-examples/transaction-examples/blob/master/config.js) based on the development environment passed.

```js
const config = getConfig('testnet');
const provider = new nearAPI.providers.JsonRpcProvider(config.nodeUrl);
```

___

## Access Keys

> To sign a transaction as well as send NEAR Ⓝ, we will need a `FullAccess` key to the sender's account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sign a transaction to send NEAR Ⓝ, we will need a `FullAccess` key to the sender's account. 
```

### 4 `nonceForPublicKey`

> - A unique number or `nonce` is required for each transaction performed with a public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A unique number or `nonce` is required for each transaction signed with an access key.
```

___

## Sign Transaction
Now that the transaction is created, we sign it before sending it to the NEAR blockchain. At the lowest level, there are four steps to this process. 

1) Using [`nearAPI`](/docs/tutorials/create-transactions#imports), we call on `serialize()` to serialize the transaction in [BORSH](https://borsh.io/).
```js
 const serializedTx = nearAPI.utils.serialize.serialize(
    nearAPI.transactions.SCHEMA, 
    transaction
    );
```

2) Hash the transaction using a `sha256` cryptographic hashing algorithm.
```js

> const hashedTx = new Uint8Array(sha256.sha256.array(serializedTx));

Reviewer 2: I think `hashedTx` is a bit misleading as the result is a hash of the serialized transaction blob (`serializedTxHash`)

```

> 3) Create a unique signature with your `keyPair` and the hashed transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) Sign the hashed transaction. with your `keyPair`
```

```js
const signature = keyPair.sign(hashedTx);
```

> 4) Construct the signed transaction using `near-api-js` [SignedTransaction class](https://github.com/near/near-api-js/blob/master/src/transaction.ts#L112-L123).

Reviewer 2: It is better to have links with a specific commit hash in them as `master` will get the file updated over time and the line references will not match.

Author: Ahh, good call. Thanks @frol !

```js
  const signedTransaction = new nearAPI.transactions.SignedTransaction({
    transaction,
    signature: new nearAPI.transactions.Signature({ 
      keyType: transaction.publicKey.keyType, 
      data: signature.signature 
    })
  });
```

## Send transaction
Final step is to encode and send the transaction.

>   - First we serialize transaction into [BORSH](https://borsh.io/), and store the result as `serializedTx`. _(required for all transactions)_

Reviewer: I think we usually just write `Borsh` instead of `BORSH`
